---
layout: post
title: Trip 4 Ottertrack and Alice
---

It’s been a while since my last post and I am no longer Up North but I feel the need to write about my last two trips in separate posts.

So my fourth trip was lots of fun for the most part. I could tell from the first time I saw my crew that they were going to be able to do a good amount of miles. It was a nine day on water trip so in total we canoed and portaged roughly 125 miles. The route we took had us going all the way up knife through Ottertrack to Saganaga where we headed south. We down to the Kawishiwi river to Alice (my favorite lake) and then to horseshoe island for our last night.

What made this a memorable trip for me was not only did we go to a lot of great lakes, but the crew was also great and they loved to sing (one brought a ukulele. Sometimes there was a little resistance when talking to some of the advisors and the youth leadership needed some work. These were pretty small problems that didn’t effect the trip. I found that most of the crew leaders are just thrown into the position and don’t have much leadership experience. This is great for me because now I have a chance to help them learn how to lead! As interpreters we don’t see how we impact each scout when they return home but I at least hope I have impacted them significantly (in a positive way).

If someone asked me what I remember the most from the trip it would be the excitement that came over me when I got to camp at the same campsite I stayed at on my participant trek. We had just gotten off the Kawishiwi and I ran into another interpreter (a good friend) who was saying all the beachy campsites were taken. I was a little worried after hearing this and was prepared to see if my crew wanted to stay at another site. I went to check around a corner just to make sure the site was taken before we went somewhere else. The site was open and a huge smile came across my face. It’s hard to explain the feeling to someone who hasn’t spent two months in the woods.

Trip number four was a good trip and I am glad it was the way it was.